Cats are the most popular pet in the USA.
There are 88 million cats kept as pets.
Cats have over 30 muscles that control their ears.
Cats sleep 70% of their lives.
Cats rotate their ears 180 degrees.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human fingerprint. 
Cats have 3 eyelids.
A cat named Stubbs was mayor of Talkeetna, AK for 15 years.
A cat ran for mayor of Mexico City in 2013.
Cats cannot detect sweetness.
Ginger tabby cats sometimes have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids.
Cats use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. 
Cats have survived falls from over 32 stories (320 meters) onto concrete.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
The only time cats meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens signalling their mother.
Studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid milk entirely.
There are 44 recognized breeds of cats.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. 
An average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound which is roughly 6x its body length.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense.
Cats rely on smell to identify people and objects.
A cat's sense of smell is 14x better than humans.
Cats sweat through their paws but nowhere else on their body.
Cats lack the ability to move their jaw side to side.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen.
A male cat is often labeled as a tom.
A cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of a human (110-140bpm)
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to show their grief.
Studies show that owning a cat is beneficial for your health.
Cats are non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but do fight to protect their territory. 
Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent  possible confrontation.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Owning a cat can reduce the risk of a heart attack or stroke by a third.
When a cat hunts, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
The technical term for a cat hairball is a "bezoar."
To get down from a tree, a cat must back down. This is because every claw on a cat's paw points the same way.
Cats make around 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft.
The group of words associated with cat (chat, katze, catt, cath,) stems from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat.
Evidence suggests domesticated cats have been around since 3600 B.C. 2,000 years before Egypt's pharaohs.
As well as a cat's purr being a form of self-healing, it can also be a sign of nervousness or contentment.
The world's richest cat, Blackie, is worth $15 million after his human passed away and left her fortune to him.
Cats recognize individual voices.
Alongside milk, it is untrue that raw fish is healthy for cats.
The oldest cat video dates back to 1894.
A cat's brain is 90% similar to humans.
Cats have a longer-term memory than dogs.
The most popular pedigree cats are the Persian, Maine Coon and the Siamese breeds.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 1.8 kg.
The largest pedigree cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 11.3 kg.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet. 
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. 
A cat usually has around 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Cats have 1,000 times more data storage than an iPad.
It was illegal to slay cats in ancient Egypt, in large part because they controlled the rat population.
Original kitty litter was made out of sand but it was replaced by more absorbent clay in the 1940s.
One legend claims that cats were created when a lion on Noah's Ark sneezed and two kittens came out.
When cats leave their poop uncovered, it is a sign of aggression to let you know they don't fear you.
Cats can change their meow to manipulate a human. They often imitate a human baby when they need food. 
Cats use their whiskers to detect if they can fit through a space.
The first cat in space was French. She was named Felicette, or "Astrocat." She survived the trip.
Cats can move their ears separately.
A cat once detected his human's breast cancer.
Cats have scent glands along their tail, forehead, lips, chin, and the underside of their front paws.
A cat rubs against people to mark its territory.
Cats lick themselves to get your scent off.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the fairy godmother figure was a cat.
The little tufts of hair in a cat's ear that help keep and insulate the ears are called "ear furnishings."
A cat's back is flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
All cats have claws, and all, except the cheetah, sheath them when at rest.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. 
Cats were mythic symbols of divinity in ancient Egypt.
Black cats are bad luck in the United States, but they are good luck in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Only 11.5 of people consider themselves "cat people."
Cat people are also 11 more likely to be introverted.
Cat owners who are male tend to be luckier in love, as they are perceived as more sensitive.
Cat owners are 17 more likely to have a graduate degree.
A cat's carbon footprint is similar to that of a VW Bug, whereas a dog's can be more like a Hummer.
The largest litter of kittens produced 19 kittens.
Eighty-eight percent of cats in the U.S. are spayed or neutered.
Sadly, only 24% of cats who enter animal shelters are adopted.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch.
How long do cats live? Well, a cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
Organised cat shows became a worldwide craze in the 19th century.
In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon "Puss Gets the Boot." 
In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot's Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats. 
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5F and 102.5F. 
A cat is sick if their temperature goes below 100F or above 103F.
A cat has 230 bones in its body.
A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head. The squishiest of cat facts!
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133F.
Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. 
Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that's for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat. 
A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Cat paws act as temperature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
A cat called Dusty has the record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during the domestication process.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
Cats have supersonic hearing.
Rome has more homeless cats per square mile than any other city in the world.
A cat will always sit on your laptop when you are working and late for a deadline.
Cats will always skip beautifully clean tap water and drink from a puddle or, even worse, the toilet! 
Their favourite pastime is to frantically run around the house at 4am.
A coughed up furball will always find your bare feet no matter how many precautions are taken.
All expensive cat gifts will be ignored and gift boxes will be sat in. The simple things.
Cats will always ask relentlessly to go outside...to then change their mind at the very last minute.
Cats always demand more food even though their bowls are half full.
A cat's favourite place is the bathroom. Especially when their human is sitting on the toilet having a moment.
